 PRINCE2 ® Sample Papers  
 
The Official PRINCE2 Accreditor Sample Examination Papers  
Terms of use  
 
Please note that by downloading and/or using this document, you agree to comply with the terms of 
use outlined below:  
1. All sample papers (in electronic or pap er format) are for personal use only.  
2. The sample papers are intended for the following use only:  
 As a study aid for candidates who wish to sit a PRINCE2 examination, or  
 For reference purposes.  
3. By downloading a complimentary digital copy of any of the  PRINCE2 sample papers, you agree not 
to: 
 Print or reproduce it (unless it is for your own personal use ); 
 Forward or share it to/with any third party;  
 Sell the document.  
4. If you wish to use the whole, or part, of this sample paper for any purpose other t han for your own 
study or reference, please contact the AXELOS Accreditation Team (accreditation@axelos.com).
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights  reserved.  
Page 1 of 20 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
 
 
Sample Paper 2 
 
 
Answers and rationale s

PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 2 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 For exam p aper: EN_P2_FND_20 17_SamplePaper 2_QuestionBk_V1 .0 
 
Q A Syllabus  
Ref Rationale  
1 D 3.7.3a  A. Incorrect. A highlight report is a time -driven control, produced at a 
predefined frequency. Ref 12.2.2  
 
B. Incorrect. An exception report is an event -driven control, produced when a 
tolerance is  forecast  to be ex ceeded. Ref 12.2.2  
 
C. Incorrect. A daily log is a useful tool for recording actions when reviewing 
progress, but it is not defined as a PRINCE2 control. Ref 12.2.2, A.7.1  
 
D. Correct. A team manager prepares a checkpoint report for the project 
manager at a predefined frequency. Therefore, checkpoint reports are a time -
driven control. Ref 12.2.2  
2 C 3.2.1b  A. Incorrect. A change control approach is used to identify how, and by whom, 
the project’s products will be controlled and protected. Ref A.3.1  
 
B. Incorrect. An end project report is used during project closure to review how 
the project performed against the version of the project initiation 
documentation (PID) used to authorize it. A.8.1  
 
C. Correct. A communication management approach contains a descr iption of 
the means and frequency of communication to parties both internal and 
external to the project. A.5.1  
 
D. Incorrect. A project brief is used to provide a full and firm foundation for the 
initiation of the project and is created in the 'starting up  a project' process. It is 
not used in the 'closing a project' process. Ref A.19.1  
3 B 4.2d A. Incorrect. The purpose of the 'directing a project' process is to enable the 
project board to be accountable for the project’s success by making key 
decisions a nd exercising overall control while delegating day -to-day 
management of the project to the project manager. Ref 15.1  
 
B. Correct. An objective of the 'controlling a stage' process is to ensure 
attention is focused on delivery of the stage’s products. Any m ovement away 
from the direction and products agreed at the start of the stage is monitored to 
avoid uncontrolled change and loss of focus. The 'controlling a stage' process 
describes the work of the project manager in handling the day -to-day 
management of the stage. Ref 17.2, 17.3  
 
C. Incorrect. The p urpose of the 'managing a stage  boundary ’ process is to 
enable the project manager to provide the project board with sufficient 
information to be able to confirm continued business justification and 
acceptabili ty of the risks. Ref 19.1  
 
D. Incorrect. The purpose of the 'closing a project' process is to provide a fixed 
point at which acceptance for the project product is confirmed, and to 
recognize that objectives set out in the original project initiation docume ntation 
(PID) have been achieved. Ref 20.1  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 3 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 4 D 2.1a D. Correct . 
 
(1) Correct. PRINCE2 requires that, for all projects, the business justifica tion is 
recorded and approved. Ref 3.1  
 
(2) Incorrect. The business justification is the responsibility of the ex ecutive, 
not the project manager. Ref 6.2.1  
 
(3) Incorrect. A project should be stopped if the justification disappears. 
However even though the justification should remain valid, it may still change. 
It is important for the evol ving justification to be va lid. Ref 3.1  
 
(4) Correct. Even compulsory projects should be supported by a business 
justification that  demonstrates value for money. Ref 3.1  
5 C 2.1c A. Incorrect.  Application of the 'manage by stages' principle ensures that a 
PRINCE2 project is planned , monitored and controlled on a stage -by-stage 
basis. Ref 3.4   
 
B. Incorrect. Application of the ' focus on products' principle ensures that a 
PRINCE2 project focuses on the definition and delivery of products, in 
particular their quality requirements. This  principle does not represent the 
primary stakeholders. Ref 3.6  
 
C. Correct. Application of the 'defined roles and responsibilities' principle 
ensures that a PRINCE2 project has defined and agreed roles and 
responsibilities within an organization structure  that engages the business, 
user and supplier stakeholder interests. Ref 3.3  
 
D. Incorrect. Application of the 'learn from experience' principle ensures that 
PRINCE2 project teams learn from previous experience: lessons are sought, 
recorded and acted upon throughout the life of the project. Ref 3.2  
6 A 4.1g A. Correct. The purpose of the 'closing a project' process is to provide a fixed 
point at which acceptance of the project product is confirmed, and to 
recognize that objectives set out in the original p roject initiation documentation 
have been achieved, or that the project has nothing more to contribute. Ref 
20.1 
 
B. Incorrect. There is not an end stage assessment at the end of the final 
stage. A purpose of the 'closing a project' process is to recognize  that 
objectives set out in the original project initiation documentation have been 
achieved. Ref 20.1, Ref 12.2.2.4  
 
C. Incorrect. The 'controlling a stage' process describes the work of the project 
manager in handling the day -to-day management of the sta ge. The 
achievement of a project's objectives is measured and confirmed during the 
'closing a project' process. Ref 17.3, 20.1  
 
D. Incorrect. The 'managing product delivery' process is used to control 
delivery of the project's products at work package leve l and interfaces with the 
'controlling a stage' process. A purpose of the 'closing a project' process is to 
recognize that objectives set out in the original project initiation documentation 
have been achieved. Ref 20.1, 18.2  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 4 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 7 A 3.3.3b  A. Correct. Quali ty assurance provides assurance to corporate, programme 
management or customer on the project's compliance with relevant corporate, 
programme management or customer standards and policies. Project 
assurance provides assurance to the project's stakeholders that the project is 
being conducted properly. Ref tab 8.1 , 8.1.1  
 
B. Incorrect. Quality assurance is the responsibility of the programme or 
corporate organization. Ref  tab 8.1, 8.1.1  
 
C. Incorrect. Quality assuranc e is independent of the project. P roject 
assurance is independent of the project manager , but not the project. Ref tab 
8.1, 8.1.1  
 
D. Incorrect. Project assurance is the responsibility of the project board. 
Quality assurance is the responsibility of corporate, programme management 
or customer. Ref  tab 8.1 , 8.1.1  
8 C 3.6.3b  A. Incorrect. This procedure assess es and controls uncertainty, not  change. 
Ref 10.4  
 
B. Incorrect. When there is an exception situation , this must be raised to the 
next level of management. This is part of the progress theme ra ther than a 
defined procedure. Ref 12. 2.3 
 
C. Correct. This procedure identifies and controls changes to baselined 
products. The PRINCE2 recommended issue and change control procedure 
can be used, or an equivalent procedure. Ref 11.4.1 -4 
 
D. Incorrect. Thi s activity defines and implements methods to check that 
products will meet their quality criteria. Ref 8.1.1  
9 D 2.1e A. Incorrect. Project scope must be defined, but it is the tolerances that define 
limits of delegated authority. Ref 3.5  
 
B. Incorrect. P roject cost must be defined, but it is the tolerances that define 
limits of delegated authority. Ref 3.5  
 
C. Incorrect. Timescales must be defined, but it is the tolerances that define 
limits of delegated authority. Ref 3.5  
 
D. Correct. A PRINCE2 project h as defined tolerances for each project 
objective to establish limits of delegated authority. Ref 3.5  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 5 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 10 A 3.6.2  A. Correct.  
 
(1) Correct. To be following PRINCE2, a project must, as a minimum, assess 
whether identified issues might have a material impact  on the business 
justification of the project (PRINCE2’s ‘continued business justification ’ 
principle). Ref 11.2.  
 
(2) Correct. To be following PRINCE2, a project must, as a minimum, ensure 
that project issues are captured, examined, managed and reviewed 
throughout the project lifecycle. Ref 11.2  
 
(3) Incorrect. As part of the change theme , verification of the actual status of 
products can be considered, however this is not a minimum requirement. Ref. 
11.2, 11.3.3  
 
(4) Incorrect. Unless the anticipated leve l of change on a project is low, it is 
advisable for a budget to be set up to pay for changes. However, this is not a 
minimum requirement for applying the change theme. Ref 11.2, 11.3.6  
11 D 4.1d A. Incorrect. To agree, perform and deliver project work is  a purpose of the 
'managing product delivery' process. Ref 1 8.1 
 
B. Incorrect. To draft a plan for the next stage is a purpose of the 'managing a 
stage boundary' process. Ref 1 9.1 
 
C. Incorrect. The stage plan for the next stage is created in the 'managing  a 
stage boundary' process and approved in the 'directing a project' process. 
During the 'authorize a stage or exception plan activity', tolerances will be set 
for the stage plan being approved. Ref 19.1, 15.4.3  
 
D. Correct. The purpose of the 'controlling  a stage' process is to assign work, 
monitor it, deal with issues, report progress and take corrective action to 
ensure that the stage remains within tolerance. Ref 17.1  
12 A 2.1g A. Correct. If PRINCE2 is not tailored, it is unlikely that the project 
management effort and approach would be appropriate for the needs of the 
project. Tailoring ensures the project management method used is appropriate 
to the project’s environment. Ref 3.7  
 
B. Incorrect. Tailoring is done according to the project's risk. It do es not avoid 
risk. Ref 3.7  
 
C. Incorrect. Tailoring does not avoid the need for training. It does ensure that 
the project management method and controls are appropriate to the project's 
environment. Training may still be necessary. Ref 3.7  
 
D. Incorrect. T ailoring will align the project method to the business processes 
that may govern and support the project, such as human res ources, finance 
and procurement . It does not avoid the need for these processes. Ref 3.7  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 6 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 13 A 3.2.3h  A. Correct. The team manager’s  primary responsibility is to ensure production 
of those products allocated by the project manager. PRINCE2 uses work 
packages to allocate work to team managers. Ref 7.2.1.8  
 
B. Incorrect. Reviewing the highlight report for the previous reporting period is  
a responsibility of  the project manager in the 'controlling a stage' process. Ref 
7.2.1.7, 17.4.5  
 
C. Incorrect. Reviewing the tailoring approach and its implications for project 
controls is a responsibility of  the project manager in the 'initiating a pro ject' 
process. Ref 7.2.1.7, 16.4.6  
 
D. Incorrect. Capturing, examining and escalating issues and risks, and taking 
corrective actions are responsibilities of  the project manager in the 'controlling 
a stage' process. Ref 7.2.1.7, 17.4  
14 A 4.3d A. Correct.  For complex projects with a large initiation stage, the 'controlling a 
stage' process can be used to control the activities. Ref 17.3  
 
B. Incorrect. The 'controlling a stage' process is used by the project manager 
to manage the day -to-day activities of a stage, not a programme. Ref 17.3  
 
C. Incorrect. Support activities are business as usual. 'Controlling a stage' is a 
project process. Ref 17.3  
 
D. Incorrect. Creating an exception plan is an activity within the 'managing a 
stage boundary' process. Ref 19.4 .5 
15 A 3.4.3a  A. Correct. 'Identifying activities and dependencies' is a step in PRINCE2's 
recommended approach to planning. The step identifies the activities required 
to deliver a planned product. Ref fig 9.2, 9.3.1.3  
 
B. Incorrect. Describing the mean s of communication in the project is done as 
part of creating the communication management approach. Ref 7.2.2  
 
C. Incorrect. Implementing responses for risks is part of the recommended risk 
management process. Ref 10.3.2  
 
D. Incorrect.  The ‘b aselining pro ject deliverables ’ activity takes place 
whenever a product is either ready for review or has been approved. Ref 11.1  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 7 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 16 D 2.1b A. Incorrect. A PRINCE2 project has defined tolerances for each project 
objective to establish limits of delegated authority. T his is an advantage of 
applying the 'manage by exception' principle. Ref 3.5  
 
B. Incorrect. A PRINCE2 project has defined and agreed roles and 
responsibilities within an organization structure that engages the business, 
user and supplier stakeholder intere sts. This is an advantage of applying the 
'defined roles and responsibilities' principle. Ref 3.3  
 
C. Incorrect. A PRINCE2 project has defined tolerances for each project 
objective to establish limits of delegated authority. This is an advantage of 
applyin g the 'manage by exception' principle. Ref 3.5  
 
D. Correct. As the project progresses the project should continue to learn. 
Lessons should be included in relevant reports and reviews. The goal is to 
seek opportunities to implement improvements during the l ife of the project. 
Ref 3.2  
17 B 3.2.3b  A. Incorrect. Project tolerance levels are set by corporate or programme 
management. The project board sets stage tolerance levels. Ref 12.2.1  
 
B. Correct. The executive (who represents the business interest) is app ointed 
to ensure that the project is focused on achieving and delivering a product that 
will achieve the forecast benefits and will deliver value for money. Ref 7.2.1.2  
 
C. Incorrect. Confirming the project delivers the required functionality is part of 
the responsibilities/focus of the senior user who is appointed by the executive. 
Ref 7.2.1.3, C.3.1  
 
D. Incorrect. Checking the required quality levels are achieved by the project's 
products is part of the responsibilities/focus of the senior su pplier who is  
appointed by the e xecutive. Ref 7.2.1.4  
18 A 1.1d A. Correct. As one of the minimum requirements, a PRINCE2 project must 
demonstrate that the project has processes that satisfy the purpose and 
objec tives of the PRINCE2 processes.  Ref 1.3  
 
B. Incorrect. A  project organization is always temporary. For this reason 
having a permanent structure is not a minimum  requirement.  Ref 2.1  
 
C. Incorrect. A project is a means to change an existing business as usual. 
However, PRINCE2 do es not define how this change is  going to take place. 
Technology to improve the business as usual will be an output for the project , 
and PRINCE2 will be tailored to mana ge the delivery of that output.  Ref 2.1  
 
D. Incorrect. Application of all of the PRINCE2 principles is mandatory. Ref 1.3  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 8 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 19 D 3.5.3e  A. Incorrect. The scale or  probable  effect of the risk is referred to as its impact. 
Ref 10.4.2.1  
 
B. Incorrect. The scale or  probable  effect of the risk is referred to as its impact. 
Ref 10.4.2.1  
 
C. Incorrect. A probable timeframe within w hich the risk may occur is a 
definition of the risk proximity. Ref 10.4.2.1  
 
D. Correct. Probability measures the likelihood of the risk occurring. Ref 
10.4.2.1  
20 C 3.5.4  A. Incorrect. Project support is not responsible  for allocating the risk budget - 
they provide administrative duties to the project by maintaining the risk 
register. Ref tab 10.1  
 
B. Incorrect. Risk responses are decided by the project team during the 'plan' 
step. Ref 10.4.3  
 
C. Correct. The risk owner manages and controls all aspects of a risk and the 
risk actionee implements specific responses to a risk as part of the 'implement' 
step. Ref 10.4.4  
 
D. Incorrect. The risk management approach is formulated during the 'identify 
context' step. Ref 10.4.1.1  
21 C 4.2c A. Incorrect. An objectiv e of the 'directing a project' process is to ensure that 
there is authority to initiate the project. Ref 15.2  
 
B. Incorrect. Preparation may begin for the next stage (which triggers the 
'managing a stage boundary' process), but subsequent stages are planne d 
towards the end of each stage. Ref 19.2  
 
C. Correct. The project initiation documentation should include or reference 
the project controls and summarize how the project intends to tailor PRINCE2. 
Ref 16.2  
 
D. Incorrect. Authority to deliver the project i s sought from the project board, 
not programme, corporate management or the customer. Ref 16.3  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 9 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 22 C 3.5.2  A. Incorrect. As part of the 'implement' step in the risk management 
procedure , risk actionees should be assigned to carry out risk responses. 
Howev er, this is not a minimum requirement for applying the risk theme. Ref 
10.2, 10.4.4  
 
B. Incorrect. Risks will be raised to the project board if they exceed tolerance 
however , not all risks are raised to the project board. However , this is  not a 
minimum req uirement for applying the progress  theme . Ref 12.2  
 
C. Correct. As a minimum , the project should maintain some form of risk 
register to record identified risks and decisions relating to their analysis, 
management and review. Ref 10.2  
 
D. Incorrect. A risk budget can be established as part of managing risk, 
however this is not a minimum requirement for applying the risk theme. Ref 
10.2, 10.3.7  
23 C 3.7.3b  A. Incorrect. An exception report is created by the project manager in the 
'controlling a stage' proces s when issues and risks are escalated to the project 
board. Ref 17.4.7  
  
B. Incorrect. An exception plan is produced by the project manager in the 
'managing a stage boundary' process. Ref 1 9.4.5 
 
C. Correct. If a work package is forecast to exceed toleranc es agreed in a 
work package, the team manager should inform the project manager by 
raising an issue. The project manager will then advise on corrective actions 
required. Ref 12.2.3  
 
D. Incorrect. A risk is an uncertain event or set of events that, should i t occur, 
will have an effect on the achievement of objectives. A forecast to exceed  
work package  tolerances is an issue. Ref 10.1, 12.2.1  
24 B 2.2 A. Incorrect. The executive, as a member of the project board, has 
responsibility for approving any tailorin g, but it is the project manager who is 
responsible for identifying and documenting the level of tailor ing for the 
project. Ref 4.3.2  
 
B. Correct. The project manager is responsible for identifying and 
documenting the level of tailoring for the project. Re f 4.3.2  
 
C. Incorrect. The team manager may propose to the project manager any 
tailoring which would help them manage their work packages more effectively, 
but it is the project manager who is responsible for identifying and 
documenting the level of tailor ing for the project. Ref 4.3.2  
 
D. Incorrect. It is the project manager who is responsible for identifying and 
documenting the level of tailoring for the project, not project support. Ref 4.3.2  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 10 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 25 D 3.3.2  A. Incorrect. Where there is already an establish ed quality management 
system for projects, for example in a programme or portfolio, only the project -
specific approaches will need to be documented, but this is not a minimum 
requirement. Ref 8.3.5  
 
B. Incorrect. Although PRINCE2 does not address quality a ssurance, and it is 
good practice to include it in the project’s quality management approach, it is 
defining project assurance that is the minimum requirement. Ref 8.2, 8.3.5  
 
C. Incorrect. In considering acceptance criteria, it can be useful to select pro xy 
measures that will be accurate and reliable indicators of whether benefits will 
subsequently be achieved, but this is not a minimum requirement. Ref 8.3.10  
 
D. Correct. To be following PRINCE2, a project must, as a minimum , define 
the project’s approach  to project assurance. Ref 8.2  
26 B 3.3.1a  A. Incorrect. Establishing the mechanisms to judge whether a project is 
desirable and achievable is a purpose of the business case theme. Ref 6.1  
 
B. Correct. A purpose of the quality theme is to use the lessons identified 
during the project to introduce more efficiency and effectiveness into the 
management of the project and the project's products. Ref 8.1  
 
C. Incorrect. Controlling uncertainty to improve the ability of the project to 
succeed is a purpose of the risk theme. Ref 10.1  
 
D. Incorrect. Establishing mechanisms to control any unacceptable deviation 
is a purpose of the progress theme. Ref 12.1  
27 B 3.1.1a  A. Incorrect. Establishing mechanisms for managing issues that may impact 
the baseline  is a purpose of the change theme. Ref 11.1  
 
B. Correct. A purpose of the business case theme is to allow decisions to be 
made regarding continued project investment and benefit achievement. Ref 
6.1 
 
C. Incorrect. Assessing and controlling uncertain events or situations  is a 
purpose of the risk theme. Ref 10.1  
 
D. Incorrect. Describing how products will be delivered that are fit for purpose 
is a purpose of the quality theme. Ref 8.1  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 11 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 28 B 4.1c A. Incorrect. The 'managing product delivery' process provides accurate 
progr ess information to the project manager at an agreed frequency to ensure 
that expectations are managed. Ref 18.2  
 
B. Correct. The 'initiating a project' process establishes solid foundations for 
the project, enabling the organization to understand the work that needs to be 
done to deliver the project’s products before committing to a significant spend. 
Ref 16.1  
 
C. Incorrect. The 'controlling a stage' process monitors the work of the stage 
and reports progress to the project board at regular intervals define d by them. 
Ref 17.1  
 
D. Incorrect. The 'directing a project' process is where the project board will 
make decisions to commit resources , but it can only do so if provided with the 
appropriate information from the 'initiating a project' process or the 'mana ging 
a stage boundary' process. Ref 15.4.2  
29 A 3.7.1b  A. Correct.  
 
(1) Correct. A highlight report is used to provide the project board (and 
possibly other stakeholders) with a summary of the stage and project status at 
intervals defined by them. Ref A.1 1.1. 
 
(2) Correct. The project board uses the highlight report to monitor stage and 
project progress. Ref A.11.1.  
 
(3) Incorrect. A highlight report is time -driven so is only produced on set 
intervals. A highlight report is not  used when an event occurs, s uch as a new 
risk being identified. Ref 12.2.2.4, A.11.1.  
 
(4) Incorrect. An exception report is produced when a stage plan or project 
plan is forecast to exceed tolerance levels set. It is prepared by the project 
manager in order to inform the project boa rd of the exception situation. Ref 
A.10.1  
30 B 3.6.1b  A. Incorrect. The issue register holds details of all issues which are to be 
formally managed and which will have issue reports created. Ref A.12.1  
 
B. Correct. The product status account should provid e details of all the 
products of a stage, including the version numbers. Ref A.18.1  
 
C. Incorrect. The product description defines purpose and function of each 
product. Ref A.17.1  
 
D. Incorrect. The configuration item record product holds the version numbe r 
of one specific configuration item. Ref A.6.1  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 12 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 31 B 3.5.1a  B. Correct.  
 
(1) Incorrect. The purpose of the risk theme is to manage project risks, not at 
the corporate, programme management or customer level. Ref 10.1  
 
(2) Correct. The risk theme aims to support better decision making through a 
good u nderstanding of risks. Ref 10.1  
 
(3) Correct. Management o f risk should be systematic and proactive , and is  
implemented by the risk management approach which defines activities that 
should be implemented to co ntrol risks on a project. Ref 10.1  
 
(4) Incorrect. It is the change theme that identifies, assesses and controls any 
potential and approved changes to the baseline. Ref 11.1  
32 A 3.7.2  A. Correct. To be following PRINCE2, a project must, as a minimum , define its 
approach to controlling progress in the project initiation documentation. The 
'manage by exception' principle is particularly important when controlling 
progress. Ref 12.2  
 
B. Incorrect. Only the overall approach to controlling progress needs to be  
recorded , as a minimum, not the detail of how reports are to be amended. Ref 
12.2 
 
C. Incorrect.  To be following PRINCE2, a project must, as a minimum , set 
tolerances. All six tolerance areas must be used, as given in the 'manage by 
exception' principle. Ref 12.2, 3.5  
 
D. Incorrect. The levels of control will remain the same even if the project 
management team structure and roles are tailored. Ref 7.1, 12.2  
33 C 3.7.1a  A. Incorrect. The purpose of the plans theme is to facilitate communication 
and control  by defining the means of delivering the products (the where and 
how, by whom, and estimating the when and how much). Ref 9.1  
 
B. Incorrect. The purpose of the change theme is to identify, assess and 
control any potential and approved changes to the baseli ne. Ref 11.1  
 
C. Correct. The purpose of the progress theme is to establish mechanisms to 
monitor and compare actual ach ievements against those planned,  provide a 
forecast for the project objectives and the project's continued viability, and 
control any un acceptable deviations. Ref 12.1  
 
D. Incorrect. The purpose of the quality theme is to define and implement the 
means by which the project will verify that products are fit for purpose. Ref 8.1  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 13 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 34 B 3.5.3c  A. Incorrect. A risk owner is responsible for the  management, monitoring and 
control of all aspects of a particular risk allocated to them. Project support 
assists the project manager in maintaining the risk register. Ref tab 10.1, 
10.4.4  
 
B. Correct. A risk owner is responsible for the management, monit oring and 
control of all aspects of a particular risk allocated to them. Ref 10.4.4  
 
C. Incorrect. A risk owner is responsible for the management, monitoring and 
control of all aspects of a particular risk allocated to them. The risk actionee is 
an individ ual assigned to carry out a risk response action, taking direction from 
the risk owner. Ref 10.4.4  
 
D. Incorrect. A risk owner is responsible for the management, monitoring and 
control of all aspects of a particular r isk allocated to them. Project a ssuranc e 
reviews risk management practices to check that they are in line with the risk 
management approach. Ref 10.4.4, tab 10.1  
35 D 3.2.3f  A. Incorrect. It is a responsibility of project assurance to ensure an acceptable 
solution is being developed. Ref 7.2.1 .5 
 
B. Incorrect. It is a responsibility of the team manager to prepare a team plan 
and agree it with the project manager. Ref 7.2.1.8  
 
C. Incorrect. It is a responsibility of project support to maintain project files 
according to document control procedur es. Ref 7.2.1.9  
 
D. Correct. It is the project board's responsibility to agree to each change 
before it's implemented. The project board may delegate some authority for 
approving or rejecting requests for change to the change authority. Ref 7.2.1.6  
36 B 2.1d A. Incorrect. The 'focus on products' principle ensures that the project focuses 
on the definition and delivery of products, in particular their quality 
requirements. Ref 3.6  
 
B. Correct. The focus on managing by stages ensures that the project is 
properly initiated before work starts on delivery of the project’s outputs. Ref 
3.4 
 
C. Incorrect. The 'defined roles and responsibilities' principle defines an 
organization structure that engages the business, user and  supplier 
stakeholder interests, s etting out who is accountable. Ref 3.3  
 
D. Incorrect. The 'continued business justification' principle defines  that a 
project must be desirable, viable and achievable. Ref 3.1  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 14 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 37 C 3.4.3c  A. Incorrect.  The length of management stages can be longer when risk is 
lower - a complex risk is unlikely to be lower risk. Ref 9.3.1.1  
  
B. Incorrect.  The length of management stages c an be longer when risk is 
lower - understanding risk does not make a risk lower. Ref 9.3.1.1  
 
C. Correct. The length of management stages can be  longer when risk is 
lower, typically in the middle of projects. Ref 9.3.1.1  
 
D. Incorrect. The length of management stages can be shorter when risk is 
higher. Ref 9.3.1.1  
38 B 4.3g A. Incorrect. When handing over products, the benefits management 
approac h is checked to ensure that post -project benefits reviews are planned. 
However, these are performed after the project, not within the 'closing a 
project process'. Ref 20.4.3  
 
B. Correct. During the ‘closing a project’ process, ownership of the products is 
transferred to the customer and the responsibility of the project management 
team  is then terminated . Ref 20.3, 20.4.3  
 
C. Incorrect. At the end of the final stage an end project report is created. Ref 
20.4.4  
 
D. Incorrect. The project closure notification  is sent to the project board for 
review and approval in the 'directing a project' process. Ref 20.4.5, 15.4.5  
39 C 4.1a A. Incorrect. To understand the resources and costs to deliver the project's 
products is an objective of the 'initiating a project' pr ocess. Ref 16.1  
 
B. Incorrect. To ensure that there is authority to deliver the project's products 
is an objective of the 'directing a project' process. Ref 15.1  
 
C. Correct. The 'starting up a project' process is a lighter process compared to 
the more det ailed and thorough 'initiating a project' process. Ref 14.1  
 
D. Incorrect. The suite of management products make up the project initiation 
documentation which is created during the 'initiating a project' process. Ref 
16.3 
40 C 1.2b A. Incorrect. PRINCE2 r efers to the organization that commissions a project 
as ‘corporate, programme management or the customer’. This organization is 
responsible for providing the project’s mandate, governing the project, and for 
realizing any benefits that the project might de liver. Ref 2.5  
 
B. Incorrect. PRINCE2 refers to the organization that commissions a project 
as ‘corporate, programme management or the customer’. This organization is 
responsible for providing the project’s mandate. Ref 2.5  
 
C. Correct. PRINCE2 refers to a  supplier as the person, group or groups 
responsible for the supply of the project’s specialist products. Ref 2.5  
 
D. Incorrect. The senior user provides the customer’s quality expectations and 
defines  acceptance criteria for the project. The senior user w ill define and 
verify user requirements and expectations. Ref C.3.1, tab 7.1  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 15 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 41 C 3.2.2  A. Incorrect. It is the responsibility of the senior user to verify user 
requirements, but it is not a minimum requirement. Ref 7.2, tab 7.1  
 
B. Incorrect. A delegate d change authority is optional not a minimum, 
requirement. Ref 7.2  
 
C. Correct. To be following PRINCE2, a project must, as a minimum , define its 
organization structure and roles. This must minimally ensure that all of the 
responsibilities in PRINCE2’s rol e descriptions are fulfilled. Ref 7.2.  
 
D. Incorrect. It is the responsibility of the senior supplier to provide supplier 
resources, but it is not a minimum requirement to ensure they are available. 
Ref 7.2, tab 7.1  
42 B 4.2e A. Incorrect. When a work pac kage is being negotiated is when the project 
manager and team manager agree the timing of checkpoint reports. Ref 
12.2.2.4, 18.4.1  
 
B. Correct. A team manager is required to provide checkpoint reports at the 
frequency agreed with the project manager in the  relevant work package. Ref 
18.2, 12.2.2.4, 18.4.2  
 
C. Incorrect. Checkpoints are a time -driven control and done at a frequency 
agreed in the work package, not driven by such events as completing quality -
checking activities. Ref 12.2.2.4, 18.4.2  
 
D. Incorr ect. The team manager is not involved in reviewing how a stage is 
progressing. Ref 12.2.2.2, 17.4.4, tab 17.4  
43 A 4.1b A. Correct. The 'directing a project' process provides a mechanism for the 
project board to achieve such assurance without being overbu rdened by 
project activity. Ref 15.3  
 
B. Incorrect. The 'directing a project' process covers the activities of those at 
the level of management above the project manager. Ref 15.3  
 
C. Incorrect. The project board manage by exception. It monitors via report s 
and controls through a small number of decision points. There should be no 
need for other 'progress meetings' for the project board. Ref 15.3  
 
D. Incorrect. The 'directing a project' process starts on completion of the 
'starting up a project' process. Re f 15.1  
44 C 3.4.1a  A. Incorrect. The purpose of the risk theme is to identify, assess and control 
uncertainty within the project. Ref 10.1  
 
B. Incorrect. The identification of project products involves configuration 
management, part of the change theme. R ef 11.3.3.  
 
C. Correct. The purpose of the plans theme is to define the means of 
delivering the products. Ref 9.1  
 
D. Incorrect. A benefits management approach is associated with the 
business case theme, not the plans theme. Ref 6.2, A. 1.1 
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 16 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 45 B 3.3.1b  A. Incorrect. The customer's quality requirements are defined in a project 
product description. Ref A.21.1  
 
B. Correct. The quality management approach is used to define the quality 
techniques and standards to be applied during a project. Ref A.22.1  
 
C. Incorrect. The level of quality required for each of a project's products is the 
quality specification that is recorded as the quality criteria in the associated 
product description. Ref A.17.1  
 
D. Incorrect. The quality register is used to summarize all of th e quality 
management activities that are planned. Ref A.23.1  
46 D 2.1f A. Incorrect. A product's quality criteria describe the criteria against which a 
product will be approved. The setting of tolerances supports the 'manage by 
exception' principle. Ref 3 .5, A.17.5  
 
B. Incorrect. A prod uct's quality criteria describe  the criteria against which a 
product will be approved. The defining of responsibilities supports the 'defined 
roles and responsibilities' principle. Ref 3.3, A.17.5  
 
C. Incorrect. A prod uct's quality criteria describe  the criteria against whi ch a 
product will be approved. The justification of the project supports the 
'continued business justification' principle. Ref 3.1, A.17.5  
 
D. Correct. A PRINCE2 project uses product descriptions to provide  such 
clarity by defining each product's purpose, composition, derivation, format, 
quality criteria and quality method. Ref 3.6  
47 B 1.2a A. Incorrect. PRINCE2's strength is in its wide applicability - it is entirely 
generic. Consequently, industry -specif ic or type -specific activity is excluded. 
Specific techniques can readily be used alongside PRINCE2. Ref 1.2  
 
B. Correct. PRINCE2 promotes learning from project experience and continual 
improvement in organizations. Ref 1  
 
C. Incorrect. Leadership styles a nd motivational skill vary greatly from one 
project environment to another. Hence, to keep the generic nature of 
PRINCE2 intact, such styles and skills are excluded. Ref 1.2  
 
D. Incorrect. PRINCE2 is intended to be used to manage only projects, not 
program mes. Ref 1  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 17 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 48 C 3.2.3j  A. Incorrect. It is the project board’s responsibility to agree to each potential 
change before it is implemented. In a project where few changes are 
envisaged, it may be reasonable to leave this authority in the hands of the 
proje ct board. Ref 7.2.1.6  
 
B. Incorrect. The team manager role may be assigned to the project manager 
or a separate person. Ref 7.2.1.8  
 
C. Correct. The executive and project manager roles cannot be combined. 
The executive’s accountability for project success cannot be delegated. Ref 
7.2.1.10  
 
D. Incorrect. Project support is the responsibility of the project manager. The 
role defaults to the project manager if it is not otherwise allocated. Ref 7.2.1.9  
49 D 1.1a A. Incorrect. Projects introduce threats and op portunities over and above 
those typically encountered in the course of business as usual. Ref 2.1  
 
B. Incorrect. Projects often cross the normal functional divisions within an 
organization and sometimes span entirely different organizations. This 
frequent ly causes stresses and strains. Ref 2.1  
 
C. Incorrect. A project is a temporary organization that is created for the 
purpose of delivering one or more business products. There are a number of 
characteristics of project work that distinguishes it from busin ess as usual. Ref 
2.1 
 
D. Correct. Projects involve a team of people with different skills working 
together to introduce a change that will impact others outside the team. Ref 
2.1 
50 A 4.2f A. Correct. An objective of the 'managing a stage boundary' proce ss is for the 
project manager to request authorization from the project board to start the 
next stage. Ref 19.2  
 
B. Incorrect. Risks do not  have to be closed at the end of a stage. During each 
of the activities within the 'managing a stage boundary' proces s, the issue 
register and risk register are updated as necessary. Ref 17.4, 17.4.1 -8 
 
C. Incorrect. Ensuring that work on products allocated to the team for the next 
stage is authorized is an objective of the 'managing product delivery' process, 
which ensu res that work on products allocated to a team is authorized and 
agreed in a work package. Ref 18.2  
 
D. Incorrect. An exception plan may be prepared during the ‘managing a stage 
boundary’ process to show how to recover from a tolerance deviation, but 
select ing and implementing  actions to resolve the deviati on would occur as 
part of the ' take corrective action' activity in the 'controlling a stage' process. 
Ref 17.4.8  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 18 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 51 D 4.2b A. Incorrect. The 'starting up a project' process only requests authorization to  
initiate a project. Ref fig 14.1  
 
B. Incorrect. The 'initiating a project' process only requests aut horization to 
deliver a project;  it is the 'directing a project' process that provides the 
authority. Ref 16.3, 15.2  
 
C. Incorrect. The 'managing a stage b oundary' process only requests 
authorization to start the next stage ; it is the 'directing a project' process that 
provides the authority. Ref 19.2, 15.2  
 
D. Correct. An objective of the 'directing a project' process is to ensure that 
there is authority to  deliver the project's products. Ref 15.2  
52 A 3.1.2  A. Correct. It is a minimum requirement that the roles and responsibilities for 
the business case and benefits management are defined and documented. 
Therefore this includes responsibility for defining any standards to which the 
business case needs to be developed. Ref 6.2, tab 6.1  
 
B. Incorrect. It is usually advisable that the senior user comes from an area of 
the business impacted by the change , but it is not a minimum requirement. 
Ref 6.2.3, 6.2  
 
C. Incorrect. If corporate, programme management or the customer are to 
manage or participate in the benefits reviews, the project board may need to 
seek their approval but it is not a minimum requirement to obtain such 
approval. Ref 6.2.3, 6.2  
 
D. Incorrect.  Development of the business justification may be delegated, for 
example to the project manager. However, this is not a minimum requirement. 
Ref 6.2.1, 14.4.4, 6.2  
53 A 4.1i A. Correct. The project initiation documentation, baselined in the 'initiating a 
project' process, is used during the 'closing a project' process as the 
benchmark to review how the project actually performed against its planned 
targets and tolerances. Ref 20.2, 20.4.4  
 
B. Incorrect. The controls for the final stage are contained in the  stage plan 
rather than the project initiation documentation. Ref 19.4.1  
 
C. Incorrect. The lessons log and lesson report are not part of the project 
initiation documentation. Ref A.20.2  
 
D. Incorrect. The project product description, which first forms par t of the 
project brief and is then incorporated into the project initiation documentation, 
is approved during the 'initiating a project' process and at the end of each 
stage. It is not approved as part of the 'closing a project' process. Ref fig 15.3, 
tab 15.3, A.19.2  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 19 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 54 C 4.3c A. Incorrect. The 'starting up a project' process aims to ensure that there is a 
clear project mandate that provides the terms of reference for the project and 
should contain sufficient information to identify at least the prospect ive 
executive of the project board. Ref 14.3  
 
B. Incorrect.  The 'directing a project' process provides a mechanism for the 
project board to meet its responsibility for ensuring that there is continued 
business justification without being overburdened by pr oject activity. Ref 15.3  
 
C. Correct. It Is the 'initiating a project' process that aims to ensure that all 
parties are be clear on what the project is intended to achieve, why it is 
needed and how the outcome is to be achieved. Ref 16.3  
 
D. Incorrect. The 'managing product delivery' process views the project from 
the team manager’s perspective and aims to ensure that products are created 
and delivered by the team to the project. Ref 18.3  
55 A 4.3f A. Correct. The 'managing a stage boundary' process should  be executed at, 
or close to the end of, each management stage. The process is used to 
enable the project board to receive sufficient information to review the current 
stage before starting the next. Ref 19.1  
 
B. Incorrect. The activities to manage a stage  boundary should be planned to 
take place at, or close to the end of, each management stage, not at the start. 
Ref 19.1  
 
C. Incorrect. The activities to manage a stage boundary should be planned to 
take place at, or close to the end of, each management sta ge. However, the 
'closing a project' process occurs at the end of the final management stage. 
Ref 19.1, fig 13.1  
 
D. Incorrect. The 'starting up a project' process is not a management stage 
and therefore does not use the 'managing a stage boundary' process . The 
'managing a stage boundary' process is not used at the end of the 'starting up 
a project' process. Ref 14.3, fig 13.1  
56 C 3.1.3  A. Incorrect. A measurable improvement that is perceived as an advantage by 
one or more stakeholders is a project's bene fit. Ref 6.1, glossary  
 
B. Incorrect. The reason for the project is  why the project is required not  the 
result of a change derived from using the project's outputs. Ref  6.1, 6.2,  6.2.1  
 
C. Correct. A project outcome is the result of a change derived from u sing the 
project's outputs. Ref 6.1  
 
D. Incorrect. The specialist products are defined as the project's outputs. Ref 
6.1, glossary  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 20 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1 57 B 1.1b B. Correct. The six aspects of project performance to be managed are costs, 
timescales, scope, quality, risk and benefits. Ref 2.3  
 
A, C, D - Incorrect. The six aspects of project performance to be managed are 
costs, timescales, scope, quality, risk and benefits. Change is a theme. Ref 
2.3, 11.1  
58 C 3.4.2  A. Incorrect. 'Starting up a project' is a PRINCE2 process, not a stage. A 
process is a structured set of activities designed to accomplish a specific 
objective. Ref 14.1, 13.1, fig 13.1  
 
B. Incorrect. To be following PRINCE2, a project must, as a minimum , have 
an initiation stage and at least  one further managemen t stage. ‘C losing a 
project ’ is a process, not a stage. Ref 9.2, fig 13.1  
 
C. Correct. To be following PRINCE2, a project must, as a minimum , have an 
initiation stage and at least one further management stage. Ref 9.2  
 
D. Incorrect. 'Closing a project' is a process, not a stage. Ref 20.1, fig 13.1  
59 D 3.2.4b  A. Incorrect. It is important to review the communication management 
approach at each stage boundary, not just at the start of the project, to ensure 
that it includes all the key stakeholders. Ref 7.2 .2 
 
B. Incorrect. Project board members are stakeholders representing the three 
primary categories: business, user and supplier. Ref 7.1  
 
C. Incorrect. Stakeholders may be internal or external to the corporate 
organization. Ref 7.1  
 
D. Correct. The three p rinciple categories of stakeholders: business, user and 
supplier, are represented by the executive, senior user(s) and senior 
supplier(s). Ref 7.1  
60 A 4.3a A. Correct. The project mandate should provide the terms of reference for a 
project. Ref 1 4.3 
 
B. Incorrect. The detailed business case is produced during the 'initiating a 
project' process when the outline business case is updated. Ref 16.4.8  
 
C. Incorrect. The project mandate may include the project tolerances but it is 
the project board's responsibi lity to identify stage tolerances. Ref 12.2.1  
 
D. Incorrect. The creation of the plan for the initiation stage is the last activity 
during the 'starting up a project' process and is the responsibility of the project 
manager. Information from the project ma ndate may be contained in the pla n 
but the actual plan itself is not  included in the project mandate. Ref 14.4.6  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trade  marks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trade  mark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires  the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 21 of 21 
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 2_Rationale _V1.1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This is a blank page.  
 