 
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 1 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The PRINCE2  ® Foundation  Examination  
 
 
 
 
Sample Paper 1 
 
 
Answers and rationale s 

PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 2 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 For exam p aper: EN_P2_ FND_2017 _Sample Paper1 _QuestionBk _v1.3 
 
Qu Correct  
answer  Syll 
topic  Rationale  
1 B 3.5.4  A. Incorrect. If the risk has not been identified, it cannot be assessed. ‘Assess ’ is 
the second step. Ref 10.3 .2, fig 10.1  
 
B. Correct. The risk must first be identified before it can be assessed, and 
responses planned and then implemented. Ref 10.3 .2, fig 10.1 
 
C. Incorrect. If the risk has not been identified, it cannot be assessed. Therefore 
responses cannot be planned or implemented. ‘Implement ’ is the fourth step. 
Ref 10.3 .2, fig 10.1  
 
D. Incorrect. If the risk has not been identified, it cannot be asse ssed. Therefore 
responses cannot be planned or implemented.  ‘Plan’ is the third step. Ref 
10.3.2, fig 10.1  
2 D 3.2.4a  D. Correct.  
 
(1) Correct. There are likely to be individuals or groups who are not part of the 
project management team, but who may need to interact with the project or who 
may be affected by the project’s outcome. Ref 7.1, 7.2.2, 7.3.9  
 
(2) Incorrect. It is important to analyze who the stakeholders are and to engage 
with them appropriately. Ref 7.1, 7.3.9  
 
(3) Incorrect. It is important to  review and possibly update the communication 
management approach at each stage boundary to ensure that it still includes all 
the key stakeholders. Ref 7.1, 7.2.2, 7.3.9  
 
(4) Correct. The communication management approach contains a description 
of the mean s and frequency of communication to parties both internal and 
external to the project. Ref 7.1, 7.2.2, 7.3.9  
3 C 3.7.1a  A. Incorrect. The purpose of the change theme is to identify, assess and control 
any potential and approved changes to the baseline. Re f 11.1 
 
B. Incorrect. The purpose of the plans theme is to facilitate communication and 
control by defining the means of delivering the products. Ref 9.1 
 
C. Correct. A purpose of the progress theme is to provide mechanisms to 
monitor progress against the allowed tolerances, and the controls to escalate to 
the next level should any forecast suggest that one or more tolerances will be 
exceeded. Ref 12.1 
 
D. Incorrect. The purpose of the risk theme is to identify, assess and control 
uncertainty. Ref 10.1 
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 3 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 4 D 3.2.2  A. Incorrect. A team manager must not be assigned a project assurance role. 
Therefore, defining the project assurance role of team managers is not a minimum 
requirement for applying the organization theme. Ref 7.2, 7.3.1, 7.2.1.10  
 
B. Incorrect. Combining roles is permissible , but not a minimum requirement  for 
applying the organization theme . Ref 7.2, 7.2.1.1, 7.2.1.10  
 
C. Incorrect. Within a programme environment appointing a business change 
manager as senior user is permissible, but not a minimum requirement  for 
applying the organization theme.  Ref 7.2, 7.3.3  
 
D. Correct. To be following PRINCE2, a project must, as a minimum, define its 
approach to communicating and engaging with stakeholders. Ref 7.2  
5 A 2.1g A. Correct. The purpose of tailoring is to ensure that project controls are 
appropriate to the project’s scale, complexity, importance, team capability and risk 
(e.g. the reporting and reviewing frequency and formality). Ref 3.7  
 
B. Incorrect. The ‘manage by exception ’ principle sets tolerances against six 
objectives. These six areas are not tailore d. Ref 3.5, 4.3.1  
 
C. Incorrect. The 'defined roles and responsibilities' principle defines that all three 
primary stakeholder interests need to be represented; business, user and supplier. 
These three interests are not tailored. Ref 3.3, 4.3.1  
 
D. Incorre ct. In PRINCE2, projects deliver outputs in the form of products. Tailoring 
is not on the specialist products but on the project management method and 
project controls. Ref 3.7, 6.1  
6 D 2.1a A. Incorrect. The business justification  for a project, compulsory or not,  must be 
documented and approved. Ref 3.1  
 
B. Incorrect. Although the justification should remain valid , it may change. Ref 3.1  
 
C. Incorrect. The format and formality of documentation may  vary depending on  
need and circumstance. Ref 3. 1 
 
D. Correct. Even compulsory p rojects should be supported by  business 
justification , even if only to demonstrate that the c hosen option represents value 
for money. Ref 3.1  
7 C 3.7.1b  A. Incorrect. The lessons report is used to pass on any lessons that can be 
usefully applied to other projects. Ref 19.4.4, A.15.1  
 
B. Incorrect. The purpose of the product status account is to provide information 
about the state of the products within define d limits. Ref 11.1, A.18.1  
 
C. Correct. A highlight report is used to provide the project board with a summary 
of the stage sta tus at intervals it has defined . The  project board uses the report to 
monitor stage and project progress. Ref 12.2.2.4, A.11.1  
 
D. Incorrect. A checkpoint report is used by a team man ager to report the status of 
a work package to the project manager. Ref 12.2.2.4, A. 4.1 
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 4 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 8 A 3.2.3i  A. Correct. The project manager  perform s the project support role unless this is 
delegated to another person/other people.  Ref 7.2.1.9  
 
B. Incorrect. The project support role is not an opti onal role for a PRINCE2 project. 
It must either be performed by the project manager or be delegated by the project 
manager. Ref 7.2.1.9  
 
C. Incorrect. The team manager produces checkpoint reports , not project support. 
Ref 7.2.1.8, 7.2.1.9, tab 12.2  
 
D. Incorrect. Project support cannot be combined with the project assurance role. 
The two roles should be separate in order to maintain the independence of project 
assurance. Ref 7.2.1.10  
9 A 3.4.2  A. Correct. PRINCE2 requires that three products are produced and maintained. 
This includes the product breakdown structure: a hierarchy of all the products to be 
produced during a plan. Ref 9.2  
 
B. Incorrect. It is the issue register that captures and maintains information issues 
that are being managed formally. It is not a minimum requirement for a pplying the 
plans theme. Ref 9.2, 11.4.1  
 
C. Incorrect. It is the product flow diagram that provides a diagram showing the 
sequence of production and interdependencies of the planned products. Product 
flow diagrams are recommended but not required. Ref 9.2 , 9.3.1.2  
 
D. Incorrect. It is the risk register which provides record of identified risks relating 
to the plan, inclu ding their status and history. It is not a minimum requirement for 
applying the plans theme. Ref 9.2, 10.2  
10 B 4.1h A. Incorrect. It is the purpose of the lessons log to capture lessons from previous 
projects. Ref A.14.1  
 
B. Correct. An agreed project brief ensures that the project has a commonly 
understood and well -defined start point. Ref A.19.1, 14.4.5  
 
C. Incorrect. The detailed business case is produced in the 'initiating a project' 
process and the project brief is produced earlier in the 'starting up a project' 
process. Ref 1 6.4.8, 14.4.5 
 
D. Incorrect. A quality management approach is used to define the quality 
techniques and s tandards to be applied, and the various responsibilities for 
achieving the required quality le vels during the project. Ref A.22.1  
11 D 4.2e A. Incorrect. Completed work packages are signed -off in the 'controlling a stage' 
process. Ref 17.4 
 
B. Incorrect. It is an objective of the 'controlling a stage' process is to ensure that 
the business case is kept under review. The business case is not reviewed within 
the 'managing product delivery' process. Ref 17.2, 18.2  
 
C. Incorrect. Progress is reported to the project board by the project manager, via 
highlight reports, within the 'controlling a stage' process. The team manager would 
report progress to the project manager, via checkpoint reports, within the 
'managing produc t delivery' process. Ref 17.4, 18.2  
 
D. Correct. It is an objective of the 'manag ing product delivery' process  to ensure 
that work on products allocated to the team is authorized and agreed. Ref 18.2  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 5 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 12 D 4.3e A. Incorrect. Team plans are not produced by the t eam manager during the 
'initiating a project’  process. Ref 18 .3 
 
B. Incorrect. Team plans are not produced by the t eam manager during the 
'controlling a stage ’ process. Ref 18 .3 
 
C. Incorrect. Team plans are not produced by the t eam manager during the 
'managing a stage boundary ’ process. Ref 18 .3 
 
D. Correct. Team plans are produced by the tea m manager during the 'managing  
product delivery' process. Ref 1 8.3 
13 A 2.1b A. Correct. When starting a project , previous or similar projects should be 
reviewed to see if lessons could be applied. Ref 3.2  
 
B. Incorrect. A PRINCE2 project applies the principle 'focus on products'. It 
focuses on the definition and delivery of products, in particular the quality 
requir ements. Ref 3.6  
 
C. Incorrect. A PRINCE2 project  applies the principle ‘manage by exception’. It has 
defined tolerances for project objectives , in order  to establish limits of delegated 
author ity. Ref 3.5  
 
D. Incorrect. A PRINCE2 project applies the principle 'manage by stages' principle . 
The project board  delegates the authority for day -to-day control of a management 
stage, within agreed tolerances, to the project manager. Ref 3.4  
14 C 3.7.3a  A. Incorrect. The end of a stage is n ot a time -driven (periodic) control. For 
example, it does not occur weekly or monthly. Ref 12.2.2  
 
B. Incorrect. Exception situations are not a time -driven (periodic) control. You 
cannot plan for them. Ref 12.2.2  
 
C. Correct. Time -driven controls take place at predefined periodic intervals. The 
frequency and format of the checkpoint reports will be agreed in the work package. 
Ref 12.2.2  
 
D. Incorrect. Lessons reports are usually produced at the end of a st age and the 
end of the project. These are not time-driven (periodic) controls,  for example they 
are not produced monthly, or weekly . Ref 12.2.2 , 12.2.2.3  
15 B 3.7.3b  A. Incorrect. It is a project board responsibility to approve resources for the stage.  
Ref tab 7.1  
 
B. Correct. The project board should  refer to corporate, programme management 
or customer if project level tol erance is forecast to be exceeded because this 
tolerance is set by corporate, programme management or customer. Ref 12.2.1  
 
C. Incorr ect. The e xecutive is responsible for a change in senior user or supplier. 
This does not require higher level approval.  Ref tab 7.1  
 
D. Incorrect. Approval of a request for change is normally handled by the project  
board or the change authority. It  would only be referred to corporate, programme 
management or customer if project tolerances would be exceeded. Ref 11.2, tab 
11.2 
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 6 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 16 B 2.1c A. Incorrect. The fact that projects have unique outpu ts is a reason for the 'focus 
on products' principle. Ref 3.6  
 
B. Correct. A project is typically cross -functional and agreeing roles and 
responsibilities ensures t hat the people involved know what's expected of them 
and what to expect of others. Ref 3.3  
 
C. Incorrect. The need to avoi d duplicated or inconsistent objectives is a reason for 
the 'continued business justification' principle. Ref 3.1.  
 
D. Incorrect. The need for control points is a reason for the 'manage by stages' 
principle. Ref 3.4  
17 C 4.3b A. Incorrect. The 'starting up a project' process prepares for the authorization of 
the initiation stage. The request to initiate the project is an action carried out during 
the 'starting up a project' process . Ref 14.1  
 
B. Incorrect. The 'initiating a project' process prepares documentation to be 
submitted to the project board for project authorization, but the actual authorization 
comes from the 'directing a project' process. Ref 16.3  
 
C. Correct. Only the project board can authorize project initiation, and its activities 
are covered in the 'directing a project' process. Ref 15.3  
 
D. Incorrect. The 'managing a stage boundary' process prepares information, in 
order  to request authorization of  the next stage from the project board. Ref 19.1  
18 A 4.2a A. Correct. An objective of the 'starting up a project' process is to ensure time is 
not wasted on initiating any projects that are based on unsound assumptions . Ref 
14.2 
 
B. Incorrect. The project management team is designed during the 'starting up a 
project' process, but the actual team managers may not be appointed until the 
'managing a stage boundary' process. Ref 1 4.4.3 
 
C. Incorrect. The project plan is created in the 'initiating a project' process and 
approved by the project board in the 'directing a project' process. Ref 1 6.4.7, 
15.4.2 
 
D. Incorrect. The project initiation documentation is prepared in the 'initiating a 
project' process. Ref 1 6.4.9  
19 B 2.1f A. Incorrect. The 'continued business justification' principle is applied through  
regular planned reviews of the business case during the life of the project to 
confir m its continued viability. Ref 3 .1 
 
B. Correct. Producing the project product description applies the 'focus on 
products' principle by clearly defining the project's prod uct, the customer's quality 
expectations and acceptance criteria. Ref 3.6,  A.21.1  
 
C. Incorrect. The 'learn from experience' principle is applied to ensure that project 
teams learn from previous experience: lessons are sought, recorded and acted 
upon throughou t the life of the project. Ref 3 .2 
 
D. Incorrect. Applying the 'manage by stages' principle enables the extent of senior 
management control over projects to be varied according to the business priority, 
risk and complexity involved. Ref 3 .4 
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 7 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 20 C 3.5.2  A. Incorrect. A risk breakdown structure is a risk management technique. It is not 
a minimum requirement for  applying  the risk theme . Ref 10.4.1.2, 10.2  
 
B. Incorrect. It might be appropriate to identify an explicit  risk budget within the  
project budget, however this is  not a minimum requirement for  applying  the risk 
theme . Ref 10.3.7, 10.2  
 
C. Correct. PRINCE2 requires that a risk register is used to capture all identified 
threats and opportunities. Ref. 10.2  
 
D. Incorrect. A risk checklist is a risk management technique. It is not a minimum 
requirement for applying the risk theme . Ref 10.4.1.2, 10.2  
21 B 3.4.1b  B. Correct.  
 
(1) Inc orrect. A stage plan is required for each management stage, not for the 
whole project. Ref 9.2.1.2  
 
(2) Correct. A stage plan is created towards the end of the preceding stage as 
part of the 'man aging a stage boundary' process. It i s produced close to the time 
when the planned events will take place. Ref 9.2.1.2  
 
(3) Correct. A stage plan is created at the level of detail needed to enable the 
day-to-day control by the project man ager. Ref 9.2.1.2  
 
(4) Incorrect. The stage plan provides the basis for the pro ject manager's control. 
The project board monitors against the project plan. Ref 9.2.1.2, 9.2.1.1  
22 C 3.1.1b  A. Incorrect. This is a purpose of the business case. Ref A.2.1  
 
B. Incorrect. This is the purpose of the end stage report. Ref A.9.1  
 
C. Correct. The benefits management approach is used to cover t he assessment  
of benefits. Ref 6.2.2 , A.1.1  
 
D. Incorrect. The reasons for the project are derived from the project mandate 
and documented in the outline business case during the 'starting up a project' 
process. Ref 14.4.4  
23 A 1.2b A. Correct. It is assumed that there will be a customer who will specify the 
desired result and probably pay for the project. Ref 4.3.4.3  
 
B. Incorrect. It is assumed that the suppliers will provide the resources and  skills 
to deliver the desired result, not the customer. Ref 4.3.4.3  
 
C. Incorrect. This is a supplier responsibility, not the responsibility of the 
customer. Ref 7.2.1.4  
 
D. Incorrect. This is a supplier responsibility, not the responsibility of the 
custo mer. Ref 7.2.1.4  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 8 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 24 A 3.5.1b  A. Correct. The risk management approach describes the specific risk 
management techniques and standards to be applied, and the responsibilities 
for achieving an effective risk management procedure. Ref A.24.1  
 
B. Incorrect. Exposure to risk is summarized in the risk profile. This procedure is 
defined in the risk management approach. Ref A.24 .2 
 
C. Incorrect. The risk management approach defines the different categories of 
risk responses wh ich can be used to identify suitable actions for each risk. It 
does not define the specific response actions appropriate for each risk. Ref 
A.24.2 
 
D. Incorrect. Risk owners are identified and recorded in the risk register. Ref 
A.25.2  
25 C 3.3.1b  A. Incorrect. This event has already happened. There is no uncertainty about its 
occurrence, therefore it is not a risk. Ref 10.1,  A.25.1  
 
B. Incorrect. This may be raised as an issue (off -specification) and formally 
managed if, for example, the failure is l ikely to lead to an exception situation. 
However, the product that should always be updated with the result of the 
quality activities is the quality register. Ref 8.2, A.23.1  
 
C. Correct. The quality register records the results of all quality management 
activities. Ref 8.2, A.23.1  
 
D. Incorrect. There may be lessons to be learned , but this is not always t he 
case. T he product that should always be updated with the result of the qua lity 
activities is the quality register. Ref 8.2, 12.2.2.3, A14.1, A.23.1  
26 A 4.1c A. Correct. The purpose of the 'initiating a project' process is to establish solid 
foundations for the project, enabling the organization to understand the work 
that needs to be done to deliver the project's products before committing to a 
significant spend. Ref 1 6.1 
 
B. Incorrect. The purpose of the 'managing product delivery' process is to 
control the link between the proj ect manager and team manager(s) . Ref 1 8.1 
 
C. Incorrect. The purpose of the 'directing a project ’ process is to enable the 
project board to be accoun table for the project's success. The project board 
does this by making key decisions and exercising overall control while 
delegating day -to-day manageme nt of the project to the project manager. Ref 
15.1 
 
D. Incorrect. The purpose of the 'managing a stage boundary' process is to 
enable the project board to be provided with sufficient information by the project 
manager so that it can review the success of t he current stage, approve the next 
stage plan, review the updated project plan, and confirm continued business 
justification and acceptability of the risks. Ref 1 9.1 
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 9 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 27 A 2.2 A. Correct.  
 
(1) Correct. Processes can be combined or adapted. Ref. 4.3.1.  
 
(2) Correct. Terminology can be changed to suit other standards or policies. 
Ref. 4.3.1  
 
(3) Incorrect. All the themes must be applied in a project , however they should 
be tailored according to t he co mplexity of the project. Ref 5.1  
 
(4) Incorrect. Some project roles cannot be shared or combined, such as the 
project  manager and the executive. Ref  7.2.1.10  
28 A 3.6.3a  A. Correct. The product description should have been baselined before work 
began. Therefore this is a request for change to a baselined product. Ref tab 
11.1 
 
B. Incorrect. An off -specification is something that should be provided by the 
project, but currently is not (or is forecast not to be). It might be a missing 
product or a product not meeting its specifications. Ref tab 11.1  
 
C. Incorrect. A problem , or concern,  is a type of issue (other than a request for 
change or off -specification) that the project manager needs to resolve or 
escalate. Ref tab 11.1  
 
D. Incorrect. A concern , or problem,  is a type of issue (other than a request for 
change or off -specification) that the project manager needs to resolve or 
escalate. Ref tab 11.1  
29 B 1.1a A. Incorrect. Both projects and business as usual may produce benefits. This is 
not one of the characteristics that make projects different. Ref 2.1  
 
B. Correct. Projects are the means by which we introduce business change. 
When the change is implemented, business as usual resumes (in its new form). 
Ref 2.1  
 
C. Incorrect. Both project s and business as usual involve managing 
stakeholders. This is not one of the characteristics that make projects different. 
Ref 2.1  
 
D. Incorrect. Both projects and business as usual incur costs. This is not one of 
the characteristics that make projects di fferent. Ref 2.1  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 10 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 30 D 4.1e A. Incorrect. The purpose of the 'initiating a project' process is to enable the 
organization to understand the work that needs to be done to deliver the 
project’s products before committing to a significant spend. The 'managing 
product delivery' process enables the team manager(s) is to coordinate an area 
of work that will deliver one or more of the project’s products. Ref 16.1 , 18.1  
 
B. Incorrect. The purpose of the 'controlling a stage' process is to assign work to 
be done. The 'managing product delivery' process enables the team manager(s) 
to coordinate an area of work that will deliver one or more o f the project’s 
products. Ref 17 .1, 18.1  
 
C. Incorrect. The purpose of the 'managing a stage boun dary' process is to plan 
the work of the next stage. The 'managing product delivery' process enables the 
team manager(s) is to coordinate an area of work that will deliver one or more of 
the project’s products. Ref 1 9.1, 18.1  
 
D. Correct. The 'managing product delivery' process  enables the team 
manager(s) to coordinate an area of work that will deliver one or more of the 
project’s products. Ref 1 8.1 
31 D 3.2.3c  A. Incorrect. The senior supplier represents the designers of the project's 
products. Ref 7.2.1.4  
 
B. Incorrect. The senior user is appointed by the executive to represent the user 
needs and does not make decisions on beh alf of corporate management.  Ref 
7.2.1.3  
 
C. Incorrect. The senior supplier represents the project development teams. Ref 
7.2.1.4 
 
D. Correct. The senior user make s decisions on behalf of those who will benefit 
from the use of the project’s products. Ref 7.2.1.3  
32 A 3.1.3  A. Correct. T his is an output - a specialist product that is handed over to a user 
(or users). Note that management products are not outputs but are created 
solely for the purpose of managing the project. Ref glossary , 6.1 
 
B. Incorrect.  This is an outcome - the result of change, normally affecting real -
world behaviour and/or circumstances. Outcomes are desired when a change is 
conceived. They are achieved as a result of the activities undertaken to effect 
the change. Ref glossary , 6.1 
 
C. Incorrect. This is a benefit - the measurable improvement resulting from an 
outcome perceived as an advantage by one or more stakeholders. Ref glossary , 
6.1 
 
D. Incorrect.  This is a dis -benefit - a measurable decline resulting from an 
outcome perceived as negative by one or more stakeholders, which reduces 
one or more organizational objective(s). Ref glossary , 6.1 
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 11 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 33 B 4.2c A. Incorrect. The available project approaches  are evaluated in the 'starting up a 
project' process. Ref 1 4.2, 14.4.5 
 
B. Correct. An objective of the 'initiating a project' process is to ensure that there 
is common understanding of who needs information, in what format, and at what 
time. Ref 1 6.2, 16.4.5 
 
C. Incorrect. The project brief is developed in the 'starting up a project' process 
not the 'initiating a project' process. Ref 1 4.2 
 
D. Incorrect. A focus of the 'initiating a project' process is to understand and put 
strategies in place to manage  constraints, not to remove them. Ref 1 6.2 
34 A 3.2.3e  A. Correct.  
 
(1) Correct. Project assurance must be independent of the project manager. Ref 
7.2.1.10, tab 6.1  
 
(2) Correct. Project assurance must be independent of project support. Ref 
7.2.1.10, tab 7.1 
 
(3) Incorrect. Project assurance is a responsibility of the project board. The 
senior user is a member of the project board. Ref 7.2.1.3, tab 6.1  
 
(4) Incorrect. Project assurance is a responsibility of the project b oard. The 
executive is a member of the project board. Ref 7.2.1.2, fig 5.4 tab 7.1  
35 C 3.6.2  A. Incorrect. Unless the anticipated level of change on a project is low, it is 
advisable for a budget to be set up to pay for changes , but this is not a minimum 
requirement  for applying the change theme . Ref 11.2, 11.3.6  
 
B. Incorrect. When reviewing management stage status, a product status 
account can be requested. However, this is not a minimum requirement for 
applying the change theme. Ref 17.4.4, 11.2  
 
C. Correct. To be  following PRINCE2, a project must, as a minimum , define the 
roles and responsibilities for change control, including a defined change 
authority. Ref 11.2  
 
D. Incorrect. There is no minimum requirement to agree acceptable corrective 
actions. Ref 11.2  
36 A 3.5.3a  A. Correct. A threat may have a negative impact on the project objectives. Ref 
10.1 
 
B. Incorrect. Events that may have favourable impacts on objectives are 
opportunities, not threats. Ref 10.1  
 
C. Incorrect. Threats are future uncertain events, not some thing that has already 
occurred;  these events are called issues. Ref 10.1, 11.1  
 
D. Incorrect. Threats are future uncertain events, not some thing that has 
already occurred;  these events are called issues. Ref 10.1, 11.1  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 12 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 37 B 1.1b A. Incorrect. Failure  to deliver on time may affect what products can be 
delivered, but does not affect the understanding of what the project is to deliver. 
Ref 2.3  
 
B. Correct. Clear agreement on scope will avoid users and suppliers making 
incorrect assumptions about what is to be delivered. Ref 2.3  
 
C. Incorrect. Risk is one of the six aspects, but does not affect understanding of 
the deliverables required. Ref 2.3  
 
D. Incorrect. Project costs need to be managed to avoid overspending, but this 
will not clarify understanding of what the project is to deliver. Ref 2.3  
38 C 1.1d A. Incorrect. Quality is an aspect of project performance that needs to be 
managed. The integrated elements are the principles, themes, processes and 
the project envi ronment. Ref 1.1  
 
B. Incorrect. Role descriptions help to agree and communicate project 
management team roles and responsibilities. The integrated elements are the 
principles, themes, processes and the project environment. Ref 1.1  
 
C. Correct. The integrat ed elements are the principles, themes, processes and 
the project environment. Ref 1.1  
 
D. Incorrect. Product descriptions support the focus on products but the 
integrated elements are the principles, themes, processes and the project 
environment. Ref 1.1  
39 B 4.3a A. Incorrect. The project mandate is refined to produce a project brief. 
Corporate, programme management or customer provide s a project mandate, 
but the assembly of a project brief is the responsibility of the project 
management team. Ref 16.4.9  
 
B. Correct. The project mandate, provided by corporate, programme 
management or customer, should include sufficient information to identify at 
least the prospective executive of the project board. Ref 14.3  
 
C. Incorrect. The project initiation documentat ion is developed by the project 
management team during the 'initiating a project' process. Ref 16.4.9  
 
D. Incorrect. The project board provides the authority to initiate a project after it  
has reviewed and is satisfied with the outputs from the 'starting u p a project' 
process. Ref 15.4.1  
40 B 2.1e  A. Incorrect. To apply the ‘manage by stages’ principle, a p roject must have at 
least two management stages . Ref 3.4  
 
B. Correct. Accountability is established by setting up controls so that if 
tolerances are forecast to be exceeded, the next higher  management layer can 
be consulted and decide how to proceed. Ref 3.4  
 
C. Incorrect. By applying the 'continued business justification' principle, project 
management can ensure that the project is desirable, viable and achievable. 
Ref 3.1  
 
D. Incorrect. By applying the 'learn from experience' principle, lessons can be 
found that can be applied in the project. Ref 3.2  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 13 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 41 C 3.2.3g  A. Incorrect. This is a corporate l evel responsibility.  Ref 7.1, fig 7.2  
 
B. Incorrect. This is a project board (directing level) responsibility and not a 
managing (project manager) responsibility.  Ref 7.1, fig 7.2  
 
C. Correct. The managing layer of the project is the project manager and the 
project manager has to ensure that the project produces the required products 
in accordance with t he tolerance levels set by the project b oard.  Ref 7.1, fig 7.2  
 
D. Incorrect. This is an executive (directing level) responsibility.  Ref 7.1, fig 7.2  
42 D 3.5.3d  A. Incorrect. This is describing a risk effect.  The risk effect is  the impact(s) that 
the risk would have on the project objectives if  the risk materialize s. Ref 10.4.1.2  
 
B. Incorrect. This is describing a risk event . The risk event is  the area of 
uncertainty in terms of the threat or the opportunity. Ref 10.4.1.2  
 
C. Incorrect. This is describing a risk effect. The risk effect is the impact(s) that 
the risk would have on the project objectives if  the risk materialize s. Ref 10.4.1.2  
 
D. Correct. This is describing a risk cause. The risk cause should describe the 
source of the risk, i.e. the situation that gives rise to the risk. These are often 
referred to as risk drivers. Ref 10.4.1.2  
43 B 4.1g A. Incorrect. The 'closing  a project' process is carried out  within the final stage of 
the project. The notification to the project board that the final (or any) stage is 
about to start comes from the 'managing a stage boundary' process. Ref 19.4 
 
B. Correct.  A purpose of the ‘closing a project’ process  is to provi de a fixed point 
at which acceptance of t he project product is confirmed . Ref 20.1  
 
C. Incorrect. A purpose of the ‘managing a stage boundary’ process is t o 
provide the project board with sufficient information to confirm continued 
business justification for the project . Ref 19.1  
 
D. Incorrect. T he handover procedures for the project's products are defined in 
the 'initiating a project' process as part of defini ng the change control approach. 
Ref 11.2, A.3, 20.4.3  
44 C 2.1d A. Incorrect. Understanding delegated authority and established tolerances is a 
benefit of  applying  the 'manage by exception' principle. Ref 3.5  
 
B. Incorrect. Understanding the customer's expectations and acceptance criteria 
is a benefit of  applying the  'focus on products' principle. Ref 3.6  
 
C. Correct. The 'manage by stages' principle provides review and decision 
points so the project board can assess the viability of the project. Ref 3.4  
 
D. Incorrect. The business, user and supplier stakeholders bein g represented 
on the project is a benefit of applying the ‘ defined roles and responsibilities ’ 
principle . Ref 3.3  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 14 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 45 A 1.2a A. Correct. PRINCE2 is based on established and proven best practice and 
governance for project management . Ref 1  
 
B. Incorrect. There are many proven planning and control techniques that can 
be used in support of the PRINCE2 themes, for example, critical path analysis 
(in planning) and earned value analysis (in progress control). Some techniques 
are described within the guidance, however  alternative, equivalent techniqu es 
can be substituted, provided  they meet the minimum requirements for applying 
the theme . Ref 1.2  
 
C. Incorrect. Whilst it is a benefit to have a single person accountable for a 
proje ct, in the case of PRINCE2, this person is the executive, no t a project 
manager. Ref 7.2.1.2  
 
D. Incorrect. Projects are all about change, even after the p roducts have been 
baselined. 2.1  
46 A 4.2g A. Correct. A purpose of the 'closing a project' process is to verify user 
acceptance of a project's products. Ref 20.2 
 
B. Incorrect. The 'closing a project' process occurs during the final stage, which 
is prepared during the 'managing a  stage boundary' process, as is  any other 
stage, except for the initiation stage. Ref 20.3 
 
C. Incorrect. The customer's quality expectations are defined and agreed early 
in the 'starting up a project' process. The expectations are captured in 
discussions with the customer (business and user stakeholders) and then 
refined for inclusion in the project product description. Ref 14.4.4  
 
D. Incorrect. It is likely that n ot all benefits will be  achieved before the project 
closes. Some will be measured post -projec t as part of a benefits review. Ref 
20.4.3  
47 A 3.7.2  A. Correct. To be following PRINCE2, a project must, as a minimum, be 
managed by stages (PRINCE2’s 'manage by stages' principle). Ref 12.2  
 
B. Incorrect. There are no reports specified in the minimum requirements for 
applying the progress  theme . Ref 12.2  
 
C. Incorrect. Authorization of work packages is not specified as a minimum 
requirement  for applying the  progress  theme . Ref 12.2  
 
D. Incorrect.  There are no reports specified in the mini mum requirements for 
applying the  progress  theme . Ref 12.2  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 15 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 48 C 3.3.2  A. Incorrect. The particular  quality tools and techniques to  be used do not need 
to be defined as a minimum requirement for applying the quality theme , 
although the overall approach to quality control must be defined . Ref 8.2  
 
B. Incorrect. The project's approach to quality planning does not need to be 
defined as a  minimum requirement for applying the quality them e, although the 
overall approach to quality control must be defined . Ref 8.2  
 
C. Correct. To be following PRINCE2, a project must, as a minimum , define its 
quality management approach. This approach must minimally cover: the 
project’s approach to quality control; the project’s approach to project 
assurance; how the management of quality is communicated throughout the 
project lifecycle; and the rol es and responsibilities for quality management. Ref 
8.2. 
 
D. Incorrect. The quality records to be used do not have to be defined as a 
minimum requirement for applying the quality theme . However, the approach to 
quality control, how quality is communicated,  and the roles/responsibilities  
related to managing quality must be defin ed. Ref 8.2  
49 B 4.1b A. Incorrect. A purpose of the ‘starting up a project’ process is t o provide the 
information required to confirm whether it is worthwhile to initiate a project.  Ref 
14.1 
 
B. Correct. A purpose of the ‘directing a project’ process is t o establish the level 
of control required by the project board after initiation . Ref 1 5.1 
 
C. Incorrect. The project controls are set up during the 'initi ating a project' 
process. Ref 16.4.6  
 
D. Incorrect. A purpose of the ‘managing a stage boundary’ process is t o 
provide sufficient information to review the current stage and approve the next 
stage plan. Ref 19.1  
50 B 3.1.2  A. Incorrect. Corpora te, programme management or customer sets the overall 
requirements and t olerance levels for the project , but is not directly involved in 
its management. It is the project board that formally verifies  the business 
justification at stage boundaries and only refers to corporate, programme 
manage ment or the customer  if the project is no longer justified . Ref 7.2, 12.2.4  
 
B. Correct. In PRINCE2, the business justification is developed at the beginning 
of the project and reviewed and updated throughout the life of the project. It is 
formally verifie d by the project board at each key decision point, such as at 
stage boundaries, and is confirmed throughout the  period that the benefits are 
realized . Ref 6.2  
 
C. Incorrect. Project support advise s on events that may impact  the business 
case but do es not formally verify it at  stage boundaries. Ref tab 6.1  
 
D. Incorrect. The project board may delegate the authority to approve  responses 
to requests for change or off -specifications to a separate individual or gr oup, 
called a change authority.  They cannot delegate their responsibility for verifying 
the business justification at stage boundaries. Ref 7.2.1.6, 6.2  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 16 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 51 C 3.2.1a  A. Incorrect. The setting of tolerances is part of the progress theme. Ref 1 2.1 
 
B. Incorrect. The purpose of the plans theme is to plans how the products will be 
achieved and  by whom and to estimate timescales and cost . Ref 9.1, 9.1.1.  
 
C. Correct. The purpose of the organization theme is to define and establish the 
project's structure o f accountability and responsibilities (the who?). Ref 7.1 
 
D. Incorrect. To apply  the principle 'manage by exception', targets and 
tolerances must be set against the six  aspects of project performance to be 
managed. This is part of the application of the progress theme. Ref 1 2.1 
52 B 3.6.1a  A. Incor rect. Change is not prevented, i t is controlled. Ref 11.1 
 
B. Correct. The aim of change control is not to prevent change , it is to ensure 
that every change is agreed by the relevant authority before it takes place. Ref 
11.1 
 
C. Incorrect. This is a purpose of the risk theme , which is to identify, assess and 
control uncertainty and, thus, improve the ability of the project to  succeed. Ref 
11.1, 10.1, 10.4.1.2  
 
D. Incorrect. It is a purpose of the quality theme to implement continuous 
improvement during the project by capturing and learning lessons. Ref 8.2 
53 C 3.3.3a  A. Incorrect. Quality assurance may define the type of quality methods the 
corporate organization uses, as part of the quality management system, but 
quality assurance is independent from the project. It is a project responsibility, 
as part of quality plannin g, to define the type of quality methods the project will 
use and include this in the project's quality management approach, (although 
this may refer back to the corporate organization's quality management system). 
Ref 8.3.5, 8.1.1  
 
B. Incorrect. Quality p lanning, not quality control,  defines the type of quality 
methods th e project will use. T his information is included in the project's quality 
management approach. Ref  8.1.1  
 
C. Correct. It is a project responsibility, as part of quality planning, to define the 
type of quality methods the project will use and include this in the project's 
quality management approach, (although this may refer back to the corporate 
organization's qu ality management system). Ref 8.1.1  
 
D. Incorrect. Quality planning defines the type of quality m ethods the project will 
use. This information is included in the project's quality management approach. 
Quality tolerances are defined as part of quality plann ing. Ref 8.1.1  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 17 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 54 A 4.1a A. Correct. The purpose of the 'starting up a project' process is to ensure that 
the question “ do we have a viable and worthwhile project ?” can be answered. 
This is achieved by ensuring that the prerequisites for initiating the project are in 
place. Ref 1 4.1 
 
B. Incorrect. The project plan is assembled in the 'initiating a project' process 
not the 'starting up a project' process. Ref 16.4.7  
 
C. Incorrect. The project initiation documentation is created in the 'initiating a 
project' process not the 'starting up a project' process. Ref 16.4.9  
 
D. Incorrect. The customer's quality expectations are captured and documented 
in the project product description during the 'starting up a project' process. 
There is no confirmation that these will be met at this point in time as the y are a 
target objective. Ref 14 .4.4 
55 B 3.4.3c  A. Incorrect. PRINCE2 mandates at least two management stages; an initiation 
stage and at least one further management stage. Ref 9.2 
 
B. Correct. There may be more than one delivery step per management stage. 
Ref 9.3.1.1  
 
C. Incorrect. Delivery steps often overlap  but management stages do not. 
Management stages equate to commitment of resources and authority to spend. 
Ref 9.3.1.1  
 
D. Incorrect. T he end  of a management stage  does not necessarily need to 
occur at the same time as the end  of a delivery step . Ref 9.3.1.1  
56 A 3.3.1a  A. Correct. The quality theme defines the PRINCE2 approach to ensuring that 
the project's products meet business expectations. Ref 8.1  
 
B. Incorrect. This is covered by the change theme. T he purpose of the change 
theme is to identify, assess and control any potential and approved changes to 
the project baselines. Ref 11.1  
 
C. Incorrect. This is covered by the business case  theme. T he purpose of the 
business case theme is to establish mechanisms to judge whether the project is 
(and remains) desirable, viable a nd achievable . Ref 6.1  
 
D. Incorrect. This is a p urpose of the progress theme. T he purpose of the 
progress theme is to establish mechanisms to monitor and compare actual 
achievements against those planned , to provide a forecast for the project 
objectives and the project’s continued viability, and control any unacceptable 
deviations. Ref 12.1  
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 18 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5 57 B 4.2f A. Incorrect. Commencement of the initiation stage is approved by the project 
board during the 'directing a project' process, at the end of start -up. This is not a 
stage boundary. Ref 1 5.4.1 
 
B. Correct. Reviewing and, if necessary, updating the project initiation 
documentation (in particular the business case, project plan, project approach, 
strategies, project management team s tructure and role descriptions) is an 
objective of the 'managing a stage boundary' process. Ref 1 9.2 
 
C. Incorrect. It is the 'managing product delivery' process that controls the link 
between t he project manager and the teams delivering the products. Ref 18.1 
 
D. Incorrect. Products a re assessed and approved when they are completed , 
during the 'managing product delivery' process. These quality checks are not left 
until the end of the stage. Ref 1 8.4.2 
58 B 3.4.3b  A. Incorrect. This is the first step in the planning procedure and is a pre requisite 
for planning. It is not part of 'defining and analyzing  products ’. Ref 9.3.1.2  
 
B. Correct. This is a task of 'defining and analyzing  products ’. Ref 9.3.1.2  
 
C. Incorrect. This is a step in the planning procedure and it is not part of 
'defining and analyzing  products ’. Ref 9.3.1.2  
 
D. Incorrect. This is a step in the planning procedure and it is not part of 
'defining and analyzing  products’. Ref 9.3.1.2  
59 C 4.3f A. Incorrect. Highlight reports are produced within the 'controlling a stage' 
process. Ref 17.4.5, 17.3, fig 17.1  
 
B. Incorrect. The project manager can take corrective action provided the action 
does not exceed  any of the stage tolerances, or unless authority has been given 
by the project board. However, this is done within the 'controlling a sta ge' 
process. Ref 17.3, fig 17.1  
 
C. Correct. In response to an exception report, the project board may request 
that the current stage (and possibly the projec t) is replanned. The output from 
re-planning is an exception plan which is produced within the 'managing a stage 
boundary' process. Ref 19.3, fig 19.1, 19.4.5, 9.2.1.3  
 
D. Incorrect. Stage plans are authorized by the project board within the 
'directing a p roject' process. Ref 15.4.3  
60 A 4.3c A. Correct. The 'initiating a project' process enables the project board to decide 
whether the project is aligned to customer objectives. Ref. 16.3  
 
B. Incorrect. The 'directing a project' process, not the 'initiating  a project' 
process, gives the project board the authority to approve the project. Ref. 15.3  
 
C. Incorrect. The 'controlling a stage' process, not the 'initiating a project' 
process, gives the project manager the authority to approve the work to be done 
by the teams. Ref. 17.3  
 
D. Incorrect. The 'controlling a stage' process, not the 'initiating a project' 
process, defines the suppliers' obligations for the delivery of the work package. 
Ref. 17.3  
 
 
 
PRINCE2® Foundation Examination  
 
©AXELOS Limited 2017.  
AXELOS® and PRINCE2® are registered trademarks of AXELOS Limited.  
The AXELOS swirl logo is a trademark of AXELOS Limited.  
Reproduction  of this material requires the permission of AXELOS Limited.  
All rights reserved.  
Page 19 of 19  
EN_P2_FND_2017_SamplePaper 1_Rationale _V1.5  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This is a blank page.  
 